In this video, we're going to instal
Amazon Corretto JDK version 11 for the Linux platform
and specifically we're going to installing it
on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS.
Now the reason that I was selecting Amazon Corretto,
I have discussed that in another video
in this section of the course
so check on that if you need to.
But for now we're gonna start by going to a browser
and we're gonna do a search in Google for Amazon Corretto.
C-O-R-R-E-T-T-O
and
we'll click on to go to that page,
come over here and select Download Amazon Corretto 11.
Now, there are installation instructions.
I'm gonna open those in a new tab
but the version I'm going to be selecting here
is the Debian version, .deb file, for my installation.
So I'm going to save that
and I'm just going to save that to the downloads folder.
It doesn't really matter where we save it.
Give that a moment to finish.
Now, obviously there's also an RPM version
if you're running RedHat, or some other distro,
and there's also a .tar.gz version there as well,
if you need that.
Right, the installation's finished
and the installation instructions are pretty basic
as you can see there,
but you can refer to those if you need to.
For now, what I'm going to do is go to the terminal
to do the rest of the installation.
All right, so I'm just going to, I should put the
instructions over to the left there.
So I'm gonna start by going into the downloads folder
cd, space, then a tilda, forward slash Downloads
with a capital D because that happens to be the folder on
this version of Ubuntu that that file's been downloaded to.
The next thing I'm going to do is follow those instructions
in the browser, I'm gonna type in sudo apt get apt dash get
space update space two ampersands sudo apt dash get
there's a space obviously space instal space java common
type in my password,
give that a moment to complete
and next thing we're going to do is
instal the installation folder
in this case the dot deb file.
So I'm going to type sudo space dpkg space dash dash instal
space and the name of the file there I'm just going to type
the first two letters and press tab
And that's our java 11 db file.
All right so, that's it, it's a pretty simple installation
as you can see there.
And what we are going to do is just check the version number
So java space dash version
Now note that the output that I've got there
is a different version.
It says java hotspot, it doesn't say anything about Amazon
and that's because I've already had an installation
of java on this computer.
And what I'm going to do is show you how to change that
so if you don't see Amazon in the output down the bottom
Amazon Corretto this is how to change it.
So again, the instructions are here.
So it's pretty straightforward.
Firstly we need to type sudo space update alternatives
update dash alternatives
space dash dash config space java
You get presented with this option.
The option we want to select here is option one for java
So you can see that instead of using the oracle version
I've got configured as option two there selection two
I'm gonna use option one.
And I'm also gonna do exactly the same,
I'm just gonna press the up arrow and change java to java c
And I'm also gonna select option one as well .
And this is obviously for the java executable but also
the java compola java c executable from command line
We're setting that up in case you wanna use it
from the command line.
And now if we type jave space dash version
this time now we can see that it says
open jdk server vm Corretto
I think I mentioned in earlier in the video that would show
Amazon but of course it's not showing that
it just shows Corretto.
In any event you can see clearly now by using the open jdk
which is exactly what we need here.
Now the other thing that you should take note of
is the folder that it is actually installed in.
We can see that on the screen there in the terminal window
in this case usr lib jbm and then java dash eleven
dash amazon dash Corretto .
So just keep a note of that folder you may need that later
but for now though that's the installation of
Amazon Corretto in jdk version 11 the open jdk
installed successfully on Linux.